In this video I'll explain the concepts behind the distributed logical router and how it can be used
as an east west router and an NSX deployment.
So here we see an example of east west routing performed with a physical router Let's follow this in
as it moves from virtual machine one to virtual machine to and notice my VM here they're on different
IP address ranges.
VM one is on the 1 9 2 1 6 8 dot 1.10 IP address whereas VM is on a completely different network ten
not one not one not 10.
And if you want to pass traffic between two different networks that traffic has to flow through a router
a VM one wants to send some ping or some other traffic to virtual machine to it's going to create an
IP packet destined for its default gateway and the packet will flow out of VM one hit the default gateway
that's been assigned within the guest operating system a VM one which in this case is a physical router
and the router will do a routing table look up.
It will determine the best way to get to the 10 1 one network.
It'll routed out a different interface maybe different Vili's an interface and the packet will flow
back through the physical switch and eventually to virtual machine to.
And so even though these two VAMC are running in the exact same physical host as each other their traffic
is flowing out of VM one right through a virtual switch out of a VM Nic a physical adapter through a
physical switch getting a.
Falling back into that same physical switch back through the same physical adapter and eventually arriving
at the destination.
Not really the most ideal path for that traffic to take.
So let's say instead of using a physical router we use a virtual machine based router.
Maybe the NSX edge for example is a virtual machine that can act as a router.
Well just looking at this diagram you can probably guess where this is going.
VM one and VM two are on the same ESX host as each other but they can't directly communicate any traffic
between them has to flow through a router because they're on different IP networks.
So here goes my packet through my virtual switch over the physical switch into another ESX host where
my NSX exists and the NSX edge routes it pushes it back over the physical that work towards the receiving
VM.
And so now again my traffic has taken a really not ideal path.
Right it's left VM one gone through a virtual switch over this physical adapter over this physical switch
through the other physical adapter to the edge which routes it pushes it out.
Maybe even that same VM neck over that same physical switch.
And eventually the traffic reaches VM to for two beams that are sitting right next to each other.
This is a really long way for that traffic to go so what if we can deploy a router right within the
hypervisor.
What if we could run a router right inside of that ESX host.
And that's how we're going to route with the distributed logical router.
And there's going to be a kernel module instance a router that runs on each and every one of these ESX
hosts.
It's called the distributed logical router because it's centrally configured.
And then a copy of it is distributed to all of my ESX hosts the DLR or distributed logical router supports
OSPF in BGP routing protocols and it supports IP version 6 as well.
So let's talk about some of the aspects of the distributed logical router or DLR the DLR behaves like
a normal router.
It's going to have interfaces.
So some of those interfaces are going to be called VX land lifts or logical interfaces.
Any interface that connects to a logical switch is called the VX landline and the interface that connects
to a distributed switch is called a landline.
And if you've ever worked with the Cisco router These are similar to sub interfaces or via LAN interfaces
on a physical router a very similar concept.
Where each logical interface connects to a different VX LAN or different Villon.
And now we can route traffic from one layer to segment to another.
So for example let's say that all of these virtual machines are running on the same ESX I host.
Right.
If VM one wants to ping VM to Will those virtual machines are on different networks right.
I can see V.M. one is $192 168 1.10 and it's connected to a logical switch but rather than that traffic
flowing out to some physical network or virtual machine VM one will send that traffic to its default
gateway which is a logical interface on the DLR and the DLR will then route that traffic towards the
appropriate network.
So now we can do all of these routing functions when I call first hop a routing right within the ESX
I host.
So let's take a closer look at how this EastWest routing is performed and how the distributed and logical
route router works.
Here we see two ESX hosts ESX Hiser one and ESX icier auto.
And I've got two virtual machines in my diagram V.M. one which is connected to the red logical switch
on the top.
V.N. I 5 0 0 0 and 2 and then down towards the bottom right.
I have a virtual machine called V.M. too and that's on logical switch V.N. I 5000 one.
So these are two virtual machines on two different networks right and then I also see my Wii taps at
the bottom of each ESX host and my physical underlay network that connects those ESX hosts.
And now let's say that VM one generates a ping destined for virtual machine to well because virtual
machine 2 is on some other network the guest operating system VM one let's say it's Windows.
Windows is going to recognize this packets bound for some other network.
It's not on the same network that I am.
So a VM one will do is it'll send that packet to its default gateway
which is a VX LAN logical interface on the distributed logical router.
So the DLR then uses its routing table to determine which interface it should route that packet out
of and is slug's the correct interface and routes that packet towards this logical switch.
Vienna five thousand one which is on the same network as the destination IP.
And at this point the job of the distributed logical router is actually done right.
There's no more routing that needs to happen here.
Now the packet came from VM one on one logical switch and the DLR received it and routed it to the appropriate
logical switch.
So the DLR is finished.
All right at this point the frame has been dropped on to Vienna 5 0 0 0 0 and 1 and that's the logical
switch.
VM 2 is connected to.
However we still need to move this frame from host ESX 0 1 to host ESX 0 2.
And so what's going to happen now is the Mac table's going to be used to determine what the tap in that
frame should be forwarded to and the type that it should go to is the type to an IP address 172 not
16 not 10 not 11.
So now at this point the source via tap will wrap that frame up in a new outer header.
It'll assign those source and destination IPs in the I had her and all of those VX LAN had header information
that we need and the frame will traverse the physical network arrive at the destination via tap where
all of those headers will be stripped off.
And the packet will be delivered to V.M. to.
So in review we learned about the distributed logical router in this lesson we learned about how it
eliminates hair pinning and hair pinning is when that traffic was flowing out to some physical router
or some virtual machine router unnecessarily.
It eliminates those unnecessary wire hops that our traffic was taking and it routes it right within
the hypervisor as a kernel module.
We learned that the DLR has interfaces called lefse or logical interfaces and that those interfaces
act as the default gateway for our virtual machines.
If our virtual machines are connected to a logical switch their default gateway will be a VX LAN Leffe
if they're connected to a distributed port group those interfaces are called V landlubbers.